I am Mykola Leontovych, born in 1877 in
Monastyrok, Bratslav county in Ukraine.
I am a composer, conductor, and teacher.
I specialized in Cappella choral music,
ranging from original compositions to church
music, to elaborate arrangements of folk music.
After graduating from the theological
seminary in Kamianets-Podilskyi in 1899,
I worked as a teacher at various schools
in Kyiv, Katerynoslav, and Podilia.
I furthered my music education on an ongoing
basis through private study in Saint Petersburg,
where I earned my credentials as a choirmaster
of church choruses. In spite of the popularity
of my compositions, My work was generally
unrecognized until I was brought to Kyiv in 1918
to teach at Kyiv Conservatory and the
Lysenko Music and Drama Institute.
My musical heritage consists primarily
of more than 150 choral compositions
inspired by the texts and melodies of Ukrainian
folk songs. My earlier works consist mainly of
strophic arrangements of folk songs. in later
years I developed a strophic-variational form
strongly related to the text. A group of
my compositions, including Epiphany Carol,
Dudaryk, and the Playing Rabbit, depart from the
simple settings of folk songs and constitute my
most original and artistic compositions. The
harmony of my choral compositions is described
by scholars as being rich and innovative, an
important role being played by vocal polyphony,
including the use of imitation techniques. My
unfinished opera called, On Rusalka Easter,
based on Borys Hrinchenko's fairy tale, was the
first attempt at a Ukrainian fantastic opera.
This opera was completed in 1977 by composer
Myroslav Skoryk and writer Diodor Bobyr.
In 1921, I died in tragic circumstances,
being shot by a Cheka agent at my parents'
home. My creativity outlived my life
as it played an important role in the
development of Ukrainian choral tradition
and influenced composers of succeeding
generations. My works were popularized and became
the basis of the repertoire of many choral groups.
they obtained high praise from critics as well as
widespread popularity in Ukraine and elsewhere.